Welcome everybody, welcome to our
webinar
the State of HTM5 Video, today and
beyond.
We're here today to talk about why Steve
Jobs was wrong and Flash will prevail.
I'm kidding, of course.
We all know that HTM5 is here to stay.
Today we're gonna cover why HTM5 video,
the the current state of the video
tag what browsers support HTM5 video
playback
on mobile, the pitfalls and best
practices.
We'll talk a little bit about video codecs
and next generation video codecs like VP9,
H.265, etc.
We're gonna talk about the fullscreen P,
how to offer a lean back experience.
We'll cover the new text tracks and W, 'm
sorry Web
TT which is the closed captioning to make
video accessible and interactive.
And we're also gonna cover new streaming
and encrypted media extensions.
And again we will leave 20 minutes or so
for Q& at the end of this.
[K_O].
Really quick, 'm Mark Robertson  run a
site called ReelSO.com.
For those of you that aren't aware, we're
a site
that provides trends, tips, and research,
about the online video industry.
'm a, a trainer as well, YouTube
certified trainer, so  train on
YouTube marketing and online video
marketing and  also work on video SO.
For any of you that might be marketers we
have a, a Reel video
summit in July in San Francisco and we'd
love to have you join us.
We're, 'm excited that we have, and
hope  don't say
his name wrong Jeroen Wijering, he's
otherwise known as JW on his presentation.
For those of you that don't know JW, he's
kind of a big deal.
He founded and created JW Player, which
was really the,
the first Flash video player, on the web,
in 2005.
And, he just needed to get video up on the
web, so he created the JW Player.
And, for those of you that don't know,
YouTube actually used JW Player,
in it's first year of existence and payed
a $15 license for that player.
So, long story short Jeroen is a big deal
in the online video space and, and really
is,
is a pioneer, and we're, we're thrilled to
have
him here and to help talk about HTM5
video.
ow JW Player is is, is a great player, if
you're unfamiliar with it take a look at,
at their solution.
They have a player that's and a solution
that's live on roughly 2 million sites and
served 7 billion plays to over 750 million
viewers in January.
They have a really large active community
lots of help, a lots of information there.
They're members of W3C, , and, and and,
and really they're,
they, they're constantly moving forward to
increase reach through standardization and
innovation.
They deployed HTM5 and, and in amazing
way if you take a look at their player.
ts works with Chrome Cast today, et
cetera.
We're really excited to have Jeroen with
us on this.
And he'll be talking about the video tag,
fullscreen
P, and, and quite a few showing some
neat demos.
dditionally we have Sam utton who's the
developer advocate for Google Chrome.
He's also kind of a big deal.
he's, he's very active as a thought leader
in the HTM standard
space and in the mobile web and he's an
author of WebRTC resources.
He often writes and presents about media
Ps.
And you could see some of his work and he
has some great examples of the mobile web
with HTM5, CSS, and JavaScript on his
website at simple.info.
And so we're really excited to have him
with us as well.
Rather than continue to babble on, 'm
just gonna
move forward and pass the presentation
onto JW, so that
he can get right into presenting and
talking a
little bit about why we're here to talk
about HTM5.
Where we are with HTM5 video today and
show you some
of the unique possibilities and
interesting
things moving forward in the future.
So, with that let me pass the presentation
oops, pardon me, to Jeroen, one moment
please.
>> ll right.
So as Mark said before we jump into
demos and like real too, like real life
examples.
Why HTM5 video?
Why is it important and like, why do
need this?
ike why is it so, like, prevalent today?
There's really two big trends that, that,
that, that drives this.
The first one is the rise of video.
So if you look at this data it's from
Cisco.
They do a lot of predicting of like
what's, what internet
traffic is gonna look like in the next
couple of years.
And as you can see from both the chart
and, and
the, the quote at the bottom video is
gonna be really big.
And the units on the left sides are
Petabytes per month.
So we're talking really big numbers here.
And if frankly if we're not careful the
video could break the internet.
And yeah, it's something that is usually
reflected
in a news daily on a daily basis.
For example, the deal between Comcast and
etflix where like etflix directly pays
Comcast now.
Those kinds of things are, are like really
the end result of this saturation of
video.
Video has been like driving a lot of
traffic and usage.
And then the other trend is mobile.
So back in the 2000s, late 1990s you had
HTM or you had video on your desktop
computers.
And what you're now seeing is that mobile
devices are also taking over.
Still the majority is on, the majority of
web viewing is still on PC's.
ut that could get, that could switch
within the next like one or two years.
And actually jump to smartphones, iPhone,
Android based devices.
And then the tablets like iPad or the
Kindles or Android devices, Windows.
So there's a, there's lot of, there's a
lot of growth in that area.
And these are really like different types
of computers that
all of, all of a sudden now need to play
video.
And  would say that not in this chart,
but on the
back of that is also the rise of set top
boxes and
connected TV's, so Google just launched
their Chrome Cast device,
the pple TV has been doing very well for
a, for a couple of years.
And and what just two weeks ago, mazon
launched its set top box the FireTV.
So there are a lot of movement in that
area.
And
then if you look at the, the, like the
technology for playing back video on the
internet like HTM5 is, it's something
that brings
that technology into the browser, into the
device.
So, it really helps to, like, make that
video robust and performant.
That was of course, why that the Steve
Jobs
or pple didn't wanna have Flash on the
iPad.
ut it's also it's also something that
Android has, has
adopted and, and other mobile and set top
platforms are adopting.
And another big, big item is that HTM5 is
very easy.
There are millions, and millions, and
millions
of web developers out there that known
HTM,
CSS, JavaScript all of the sudden they can
work with video and that's a big deal.
And just on a broader on a broader scope
this
HTM5 video tag it makes video a first
class citizen.
So next to text and image everybody can
work with
video and everybody can like present video
on their websites.
The browsers can will have video as part
of their model, as part of their rendering
pipeline that's of separate black box and
that
means accessibility for search engines
people with disabilities.
ll kinds of exotic browsers that, that
don't rely on
a vendor that needs to build a version of
a plugin.
ow everybody can just adhere to the spec
and then render the, a video themselves.
And that, that means that the debroadary
consistent doesn't have to focus on just
what play it, but also on scaling,
scalabilities, security.
n shop [KOW], the things that are
really
important as we saw from this, Cisco
charts.
Yeah and then if you look, look today that
the promise
of, of HTM5 video is, is already broadly
being delivered on.
On the desktop all the big browsers
support HTM5 video, the
one caveat that's still out there is
nternet xplorer 8 it's
got a couple of percentage points of
market share still that,
won't do HTM5 yet, but that ones also
fairly rapidly fading away.
And then on the mobile site both iOS and
Android,
the two, like, big players out there,
fully support HTM5 video.
OS, iPad, Android iPad, iPhone through
Safari and then Android through both
their slightly olderAndroid browser, and
then in the newer versions of
Android the Chrome browser that, that's
really like taking over that, that,
that role of theAndroid browser as the
default browser inAndroid.
nternet xplorer on Windows Phone is also
very
compliant, supports a lot of the HTM5
functionalities.
One caveat  wanted to mention here is in
certain countries ndia
is a great example, there is a lot of
usage of proxy browsers,
where the browser is actually not
rendering the page, but it's only showing
like more or less, an image, and the
server is rendering the image.
Opera Mini is a great example of that.
Those are not HTM5 compatible at this
point.
in, in like Western countries you will see
next to no traffic from these browsers.
ut especially in sia, you will see a lot
of traffic from those browsers.
And for them, you have to make sure that
in terms of fallback you, you handle them
appropriately.
To really overall if we, if we look back
at, at what happens and how we got to
HTM5.
So there were really three big stages of
web video, of online video.
n the late 1990s early 2000s you had
the separate QuickTime Real, and Windows
Media Player.
You have to install them separately,
poster size
images separate from the webpage really
not integrated video.
And then Flash, and later on Silverlight
gets in the way, and they actually allowed
video to play in a webpage and look,
to a certain extent interact with other
content.
Still hard to set up, specific to
desktops.
And, so not very reliable for mobile and
that's where we now act with HTM5.
Video is really part of the standard.
There is no plugin needed.
t works everywhere.
t's very easy to use.
[K_O].
And that all starts with the video tag.
So the video tag is the magic element that
wraps everything HTM5 video.
And it's entry points to, to everything
HTM5 video.
So here, here it is in liquid, in all it's
glory with, with it's attributes.
There's links to the video file, there's
links to a poster image
that's the image that you see before the
video actually starts playing.
And that poster image you look at if you
are a designer you wanna take a lot of
attention and making that really nice
because that's like
the rope sign inviting people to play our
video.
And then next to those there's the
dimensions, how wide, how
high you want that video element to be and
then some flax.
Controls, autoplay, loop, muted.
Most of which speak for themselves.
For the controls it's interesting to
quickly take a look at a quick demo
because every browser by default will
actually build in a a like a
fully functional control bar with a play
button muting, and a full screen control.
So that's something that if you enable the
controls, you'll see
and, look at this source code of this page
you can see
like it's a very, it's just two lines,
it's, it's a couple
of lines of code the video tag with the
attributes we specified.
The very quick fallback for the browsers
that do not support video.
So they see a message and then you close
the video tag.
So let's, let's have a little bit more fun
with video.
'm gonna show two quick demos.
One of them is about response of design
and then the other one is around
background video.
So, here is the example of response of
design with, with
the video tag it's actually super straight
forward to make video responsive.
You set the width of video to a certain
percentage.
And then you set the height of the video
to
auto and then whenever you scale your
page, you scale your
video elements, the element will know what
the aspect ratio
of the video is and will automatically
scale the height accordingly.
So, compared to existing, like Flash
players and, and YouTube
embeds, that making an HTM5 video
responsive is super straightforward.
[K_O]
And then here is another one.
Here's a background video.
Something you do wanna be very careful
with,
in terms of application make sure that not
all
your sites have background video, but,
but, but only
in places where this makes sense the video
like,
adds to the message ut, as you can see,
like the video is really performing in
full screen,
it's part of the browser [KOW] and the
browser
can take care of things and you can put
whatever you want on, on, on, on top of
it.
specifically, when technically what we've
done here is put
the video as a fixed element in the
background.
Make sure that it scales to 100% of the
width and height
of the page and 'll put everything else
on top of that.
ow you see the little line image  don't
know if it comes across well on over the
webinar.
ut that's a, that's a neat simple trick
to kind of a
blurred effect that, that, that video is
always a little bit pixelated.
t can give everybody a full H quality.
So, as you put this little like scan line
background
image on top of it, and it looks much more
crisp.
[SO].
ow these two items we just, these two
demos
we just changed the properties of the
video tag themselves.
ut beyond that there is really a ton of
things you can do because everything just
is part of the video playback can be
scripted against.
So you can listen to the network, the
buffer state,
is the video loaded, how much of the video
is loaded.
You can listen to queuing and, and, and,
and loading Ps.
So you can actually build playlist
functionality.
And then whenever video  is done, load
video  into the player.
You can have playback stay controls, or if
the video is pausing, you can
do certain things under [KOW] and if
the video plays again, you can take away
those items again you can seek, you can
trigger seek, you can listen to seeks,
you can change the volume, and you can
listen that the metadata of the video.
So, how large is the video, how long is
the video?
very quick example is the, this one
where
we're actually changing the playback rate
of the video.
So as you see here the video is playing at
normal speed.
And  can speed that up and make the video
play like
four times it's normal speed which is
great, for, for example, for seeking.
ut  can also slow that down.
So death one is great for sports
for replays that's something that's,
that's really straight
forward a couple of lines of code and you
can do that in every browser.
[SO].
We talked a little bit about the custom
controls there every browser
has it's own controls as you can see in
this image here.
The great thing about the scripting P is
that you
can build your own controls, instead of
the built in ones.
So 'll show a few examples, of what we've
done with JW Player.
So here you can see that we've added a lot
of controls on top of the video player.
And not only Mark made her own versions of
built in controls, but also added controls
such as video quality menu or a, a sharing
menu or a playlist on the side.
This is something that with some
JavaScript, some CSS you can do
it yourselves as well, and every other
video player framework out there.
ext to generic player, be it FlowPlayer,
or VideoJS,
or others, they will do the same as well.
So that way, you can use the scripting
P, some styling
to actually have that, have those controls
consistent across all browsers.
Would also have those controls very
reflective of
your brand name and your, your website
messaging.
[K_O].
And then finally be-before, before  hand
it over to Sam.
Wanted to point out a few gotchas on the
mobile side because, everything
works, almost everything works the same as
mobile but, there are a few caveats.
The first one is that the volume is
controlled by
the built in buttons in your phone or in
your tablet.
So, you can not programmatically control a
video's volume.
slightly bigger deal is that there is no
autoplay support because
both battery and bandwidth are precious
resources on mobile devices.
So all browser vendors both pple and
Google and Microsoft have opted to
not support that autoplay attribute to, to
save these battery and bandwidth issues.
The same goes for preloading off your
video.
So if you want to, if you hit the play at
that
point on a mobile device the, the device
will fetch the video.
And it will not pre-fetch that video
anticipating that play.
So you always have a little bit more
buffering, before the video starts on
mobile devices.
And then the last caveat is really for, is
for, iPhone only.
On iPhone, the video always plays in full
screen.
So there is no way the iPhone put that
video inside that
web page with white text, or imagery, or
interactive content around that.
That's only iPhone note, on both iPad and
any android device.
Android phones, android tablets, you won't
have that issue.
That's it.
et me hand it over to Sam, to actually
talk about the new codex.
>> Thanks Jeroen, beautiful stuff.
mazing stuff.
et me just make sure 've got control
here.
Okay.
'm going back to the actual notes.
So yeah.
eautiful stuff there from Jeroen.
So  wanted to  wanted to talk a bit
about the state of codecs.
ecause you know, this is the technology
at
the heart of online video, and, and
because.
For the first time, we're entering an age
where Codex have
been designed with the web in mind, in
particular the mobile web.
ow the good news is that you only need
two
video formats, that's WebM and MP4, to
cover all modern browser.
So, that's 85% of all the browsers that
support the video element, on mobile and
desktop now.
MP4 and WebM these are tiny formats, you
can think of them, a little bit,
maybe like a zip file or something
like that, that bungles together audio and
video.
Most currently MP4, stores audio using C
compressions, and video using HT64.
WebM uses VP8 and Vorbis, or more
recently, VP9 and, [KOW] support.
ow, the source element shown in the
example on screen
here, allows you to list format by order
of preference.
And for the browser, the select format it
supports.
With no scripting, and no server side
capability checking.
You could add a type attribute to enable
the browser to choose a
format, without having to download some
video checks, kind of sniff the format.
so, you know, just one request can be made
to actually start playing content.
This is especially important on mobile,
where every request counts.
ny element can be added as a fall back,
you can see there 've got a, a paragraph
element.
Just, you can have something nicer than
that, an image, just
a great fall back for platforms that don't
support the video element.
Something that.
People say that its lights.
ow, if you want to know the actual source
chosen by the browser
for the video, you can use the current
source property of the video.
That returns the actual value chosen.
ets look at lets just go over to an
example here.
So if  go to this page.
You can see that 've got, the Chrome dot
web M file chosen.
ow, if  go, that's in Chrome, if  go
over to Safari, you can see here
that 've got Chrome dot MP4
and that's
just done automatically using the the
current source attribute.
ow if you wanna find out what codecs are
supported by a
video element by browser, you can use the
can play type method.
've got an example here, which is running
in.
Run and you can see some examples there.
So returning an empty string for formats
that aren't supported essentially formats
that are
probably supported with some caveats get
returned
probably and where its maybe its returning
maybe.
So, slightly crazy syntax but a really
easy way to work out what support.
So, let's go back to represent.
And yeah,  wanted to talk a little bit,
about, VP9 and HVC codecs.
These, the, the kind of next generation of
codecs, which
gives, roundabout double the data
compression of VP8 or H264 or.
ooking at it the other way, twice the
quality, the same, same bit rate.
ow VP9 is open and royalty free.
You can see VP9 in action on YouTube.
t's now used,  believe, in over 40% of,
YouTube HTM 5 playback.
So, over 40% of YouTube HTM 5 playbacks
are encoded with VP9.
So the hardware support for HVC and VP
nine will allow streaming of doing things
like streaming  guess with ultra H
content
directly to computers, and TVs, and mobile
devices.
And crucially reducing processing cost and
you know
particularly when we're considering mobile
devices, power consumption.
So modern codecs are looking really
healthy.
think you know, someone told me a couple
of days
ago,  think real world example of this
they were in a
hotel room with 1 Megabit wi-fi and you
know they could stream
720p video whereas older codecs, they
would have struggled with 480p.
So great news there.
Just a quick mention of, of the daala
codec.
ow this is an interesting project.
From the Xiph.Org foundation.
t's patent free uses a radically
different
technique from other codecs, to avoid
blockiness.
Something called a left transform.
the, the founder of Xiph, very smart guy,
Monte Montgomery.
Has stated that the goal of daala is to go
a generation beyond VP9 and HVC.
So 'm interested to see where that
project goes.
Speaking of which, f you wanna learn more
about the digital video,
strongly recommend Monty Montgomery's,
highly
entertaining digital video primer for
geeks.
You can see it there.
There's a link on the screen,  think.
f not, we'll add one.
so,  guess, just for a taste, maybe, of
how far we've come with Codecs.
want to just show kind of, somewhat,
experimental demo, here.
f we have a look now, you can see on
screen here.
What appear to be, a background with two
elements, and you
have a look each of these elements is
actually a video.
And you can see that, 'm able to.
o element-like stuff cuz, they're
elements.
You know,  can do the animations with
CMS.
can do, you know, filters and so on.
And what's great is, that these videos
have
been encoded in Web  with alpha
transparency information.
So, slightly bizarre but you know,  can
image a lot of amazing use cases for that.
And we can even get background as a video
and have videos playing over videos.
So great stuff there.
think the future looks really bright for
modern codecs.
little bit of a leap over now, to the to
a little bit of discussion that is crucial
to online video.
Particularly thinking again about eyeball
devices.
The fullscreen P.
ow, of course on Safari on an iPhone,
video elements are displayed
inline on the page, but when you tap the
element, video plays back full screen.
likewise, if we look at if we look at
Android.
sorry, going past a bit.
You can see that when we call playback on
the video element, it simply plays back
within the screen.
And you know, we can use the, the full
screen icon there.
Or we can use the full screen P as long
as we're going with the show.
f we look at.
ooking at iPad there.
Safari on iPad.
You can see, again, the video plays it
long.
And you can see in this example that, you
know, this can lead to problems.
You know?
Setting, that width 100% with CSS may
have, may have helped out here.
So.
mean all in all video, on the multi
device web that we're coming to.
With, you know, wearable's and big
screens,
small screens, TV devices all kinds of
stuff.
t's really calling for a, a much, much
more flexible approach to web
design than we'd gotten used to in in the
traditional web browser scenarios.
So, for platforms that do not force full
screen video playback, a better
alternative may be to use thumbnails and
go full screen for playback.
ow the full screen P is widely
supported, you can see from the,
from the link they have a look at the
devices that support that.
t's a, it's a really rich P, that's it
provides scripting
and events, properties, and even CSS to
control full screening of content.
So any element including the video
elements, or you can
even full screen an entire page, the, the
actual document.
ow, on devices with smaller screens, you
may wanna consider using thumbnail
images, as placeholders for video, as
shown in, in the example here.
When you tap on a thumbnail image the
thumb nail is replaced by a
full screen video element that makes use
of, of whatever screen area is available.
let, let's see that in action.
Unfortunately ,  can't show you that on
a phone here, but  can show it
to you on my on my laptop.
So, if we press play now, we so 've
tapped on the element there.
t's full screen, the video.
[SO].
And then  can go back to that, and then
go back to the the page there.
Tap on the other one now.
And we're playing the other video.
The web is always changing.
and there we go.
So yeah, just a handy way of, of using the
full screen P to full screen videos
from, from thumbnails.
So, moving on from there  just wanted to
talk a
little bit about how we actually deliver
video because this is,becoming
increasingly increasingly a important
problem to solve in the, in the age of
devices on a variety of connectivity
scenarios and usage scenarios.
So, what's been in the pipeline for some
years now, and
it's several technologies developed to
handle
it, it's something called adaptive
streaming.
ssentially this is an alternative to
simply downloading a video file.
Which is kind of the, the examples that
've been showing so far.
So adaptive streaming works like this.
The, the server doesn't sent the entire
video to the client, but
in fact only small pieces of video that
last a few seconds each.
The client then joins the fragments
together, into a single video stream.
Often there, yeah, this could be combined
with, multiple, qualities of video.
So bit rates, which means that the client
can fetch fragments that fit its bandwidth
conditions.
And, obviously, this gives us the ability
to respond dynamically.
To fluctuations in connectivity and all
kinds of variability and unpredictability.
So you can see that from the, the diagram
on the right there.
So, there are huge advantages to adaptive
streaming and especially when we consider
it during long form content video
can be much faster.
And live streaming can be made possible
with this technique.
ike  say, the adaptive part, allows for
the best possible video quality with any
connection.
Obviously this is crucial on mobile.
Popular adaptive streaming protocol we've
got used to is technique is, is HTTP live
streaming from pple its built into iOS
andAndroid HTM video tag.
JW player also supports it on desktop
browsers.
So yeah lets lets take a look at a sample
in here.
I'll just go over into that.
et's move to the other screen here.
[OS].
>> We have main engines start.
Four, three -.
>> We'll move a little bit further into
the video.
[SO].
And you can see the the rate that we're
getting there.
And yes, superb.
And you, we, can't see it on the webinar,
but
it is really superb quality video playback
that we're seeing here.
So yeah, great, great techniques with with
adaptive streaming from JW Player there.
ow.
The downside of course of a, a technique
like hls is that,
it is essentially proprietary, developed
by
pple, likewise for, Microsoft's smooth
streaming.
And, and that's why etflix and Google and
Microsoft have,
proposed a standard MS, which is, short
for media source extensions.
Which as it implies is, is an extension to
the the HTM media element, so video and
audio.
And it's an P to enable client side
JavaScript, to construct video streams.
So imagine that the P can download
chunks of video and then put them
together itself to create a video stream,
all of that done on the client.
ow MS crucially enables adaptive
streaming
of course, and particularly, techniques
such as.
Something called MPG-SH.
MPG-SH is, is an open source adaptive
streaming solution, as they say.
And unlike, yeah unlike HS, it's an open
industry standards.
t's a actually, and, and  see itself as
a candidate recommendation for
the W3C, which means it, is on track for
the coming part of .
And it's got, it's got wide support from
browser vendors.
They all plan to support it and
internet xplorer and Chrome already
[KOW] today.
So let's, let's have a look at a very
basic demo, demo here.
This is slightly,   guess,
but, it kinda shows MS in action.
f we can play the video here, you can see
'm playing some video.
And then, down at the bottom, you can see
a bunch of, events there.
And what's actually happening, this, this
is slighty dotty.
What's happened there is that.
We've downloaded a video and chunked it up
using file Ps, and then
put the chunks back together on the
clients to demonstrate MS, in action.
recommend looking up the code for that,
because it's, it's
a really good introduction to MS and and
how it works.
So, moving on to another three letter
acronym.
ncrypted Media xtensions.
This is also a JavaScript P, again an
extension to the actually more
media relevant Ps, to enable web
applications to interact with
RM, igital Rights Management systems,
called CM modules.
These are content decryption modules.
ow, the end of this is to allow playback
of encrypted media.
f a browser supports M, it will detect
if the video is encrypted by looking
at the video metadata, and it can then
negotiate with a CM, a content decryption
module.
And a licensing server to get a key, and
playback video.
M could either use simple clear key
encryption, or an add on
that RM module such as Widevine working
with a license server itself.
now, browsers that support M can detect
if the
video is encrypted like  say, when
playback begins.
And like  say, then they interact with
the
content decryption module, get a key, play
back content.
And, in that sense, the playback becomes
transparent.
The user.
now, the crucial thing is that MS, the
media
source extensions for doing adaptive
streaming plus M enables
adaptive streaming with content protection
which in turn allows
content providers to deliver commercial
video to any platform.
So, in other words, to mobile platforms to
slates and tablets and
so, so on, and all the other devices that
are coming our way.
So M is a working draft specification.
And already used by etflix, and other
publishers, if you wanna find out more,
strongly recommend the article,  wrote on
action live rocks, M WTF.
And yeah, with that, back to Jeroen, who's
going to
tell us a little bit about text tracks,
believe.
>> So, text tracks are really, here we go.
So, text tracks are really the new hotness
in in like html five and online video
today.
We'll jump into a couple of
like
demos to show why, and very quickly first.
et's take a look at the track element,
and understand what it's doing.
t's really a, a new HTM5 element.
t focuses on making video accessible.
And it makes it  video
accessible to
both the robots, computer, and the actual
people.
t's although it's fairly new, it's been
like proposed probably about two years
ago.
And t's really finding its way into the
browsers very fast.
very major browser now supports it.
Firefox not yet.
Check out the ticket to see how far they
are.
s far as  understand, they're really
wrapping up support for it.
And what, so, what the track element does
is, it provides
it provides, like, text data that can be
timed to the video.
And there are really five kinds of, of
tracks
that are, that are supported out of the
box.
The first two are, are captions and
subtitles.
Then there are video chapters, like, think
about it, V menus
that allow you to quickly jump to sections
of the movie.
There's audio descriptions.
So a little bit of text of what that
describes what's going on in different
sections of the video.
And then the last one is metadata, that's
where you as a web
publisher, as a web developer, can put
your own time text into a file.
And then, do whatever you want in terms of
syncing router, and video together.
We'll, we'll jump into that a little bit.
And looking on the right side, you see a
great
example of a very basic implementation of
a text track .
t's a single track.
t provides captions.
And, the short file of the captions is
called sintel, sintel.vtt.
ow what does that look like?
So for example, here you have a video
player.
t has a single track or captions, and
those captions will pop up over the video.
ow the difference between captions and
subtitles, it's like
subtitles are, are used, what you usually
have multiple subtitles.
They're in, other languages than the
language that the video is in.
So, 'm loading this one now.
'll add some subtitles.
And for example, Japanese, Russian,
Spanish, so-.
Captions provide accessibility to people
that are your language.
And subtitles provide accessibility to
people that
are not native speakers of your language.
ow, we talked about VTT.
And VTTs really the, the file format in
which you can set your captions.
t's a very simple text format, and you
can see an example on the right, there.
it's, a VTT file is divided up into
something we call cues.
So, there are blurbs of text that contain
start and the endpoint
of the, of that of the text, and then the
text themselves.
And then the text can be one line, it can
be multiple lines and if you do what you,
basically you can, you can do, you can
also put metadata or, or JSO in it.
f you're not using a VTT port captioning.
f you do use VTT port captioning you can
also style your captions.
That, that's a great that's a great
example of the power of HTM5 videos.
ecause now all of a sudden, all of the
flexibility of CSS and Javascript are at
your disposal.
And that's something that with, like,
Firefox, Firefox has [KOW] for, Flash.
You had to build all those things yourself
from
scratch every time you wanted to do
something like this.
Here with HTM5 its part of the browser
and you can just jump into it.
So let us actually jump into that.
Here is a example of VTT styling where the
styles themselves are in the cues.
So in the cues there's very simple styles
that say.
Could be on the left side, could be on the
right side, could be in the middle.
And then you can have a bold tag, you can
have italic tags,
and you can make the, you can change the
color of certain cues.
You can designate speakers.
For example, you can say speaker one has
blue text, speaker two
has green text, so you can really change
how they are positioned.
And really make, make a distinction
between speaker one and speaker two.
And, well here's another example.
n which you can really see, styling and
CSS itself.
So if we, we it, if it's very green, and
if we look at the page,
then you can see here that we're using a
green background,
a monospace font, and a very bright green
word wrap for the text.
So this is really a great like a great and
easy
way to offer your, your viewers to style
the captions themselves.
Which is also required for example by
bodies like the FCC and nited States.
And then  kinda give it away already but
here some more fun.
[MSC].
>> Karaoke, very important for the
internet, so
very much a part of VTT as well.
And then let me quickly jump into a few
items because we're
running over, we're running over time, and
you'll have the links here.
will be sharing the slides afterwards so
you can
look over all the demos and, in their
glorious details.
ut there is so much stuff you can do with
syncing up captions beyond
just of syncing up videos with your
webpage beyond just captions.
VTT the text directive really allow you to
open up the
video timeline and do all kinds of
interaction video with it.
So we have transcripts, tooltip
thumbnails, that's a,
that's a small one  can quickly show you.
t allows, you've seen this on YouTube,
you've
seen this on Hulu, JW Player also supports
this.
t allows you to scan videos before
actually going there and you can,
once, once you see a section that, that
makes sense, you jump in there.
So you don't have to like kind of scrub
through the
video itself and wait while it buffers and
loads, and buffers.
You can do audio descriptions.
You can actually generate speech these
days
in, in, in Chrome and Safari, very
powerful.
nother cool one  quickly want to show is
in-video search.
So, imagine you have the, the transcripts
of hundreds of videos.
And then you actually offer a search the
video.
Well, that's just what Sam did in this
demo.
Which has a lot of Google developer
videos.
Where you can search for a topic.
Then it provides the relevant videos with
matches.
We click on one of the videos.
And it actually will [OS] you right
there, where that like word pops up.
So it's really powerful to unlock that
content of video.
There's other things you can do, think
about slide synching, where you
have video with Powerpoint slides, you
sync them up, for e-learning applications.
And then the last one is something
definitely
recommend you take a look at is GPS
tracking.
So GPS coordinates of a video and then
syncing up, syncing that up to Google
Maps.
That, that brings us to the end of the
presentation part and we're now
jumping over to the Q and  session that
will be moderated by Mark.
So, Mark 'm handing it over to you.
[K_O].
>> Thanks Jeroen.
We have ten minutes  don't know 'd like
to find out whether
or not Jeroen and Sam, can you guys stay
on a few minutes after?
>> Yeah, no trouble.
>> Yeah, we, we will.
>> Okay, great so well, let me, let me go
through a few of the questions that  am
seeing here
et's see here, does HTM5 video already
support multiple subtitles?
ot sure  understand that question there,
do you guys?
>> That, yeah, that's a good question,
think possibly
what they mean is a choice of subtitles
for different languages.
And that hasn't been implemented yet in
the browser, what
would say is that the player and
captionator,  believe.
Polyfills the track, do support that.
n fact, those will, those are, that is
part of
the spec and it will be coming to the
browsers.
So the ability to choose by language,
choose
different subtitles, move state between
subtitles, and audio descriptions.
Other kinds of captioning and so on.
So yes the answer, the short answer is not
yet notably
in the browser done by the polyfills
coming to browsers really soon.
>> and the, the, the track element it's
supported
it's WebVTT, that's the only subtitle file
format supported, correct?
>> You can also use  believe in all the
browsers
you can also use ST format which is,
which is very similar.
And the,  think the polyfill support
other formats as well.
ut yeah, 'd be worth looking at the
documentation for that.
>>  think this question is equally good
for either one of you.
Just a little bit, your view on the future
of MPG dash.
>> You
wanna take that first?
>> .
Oh yeah, sure.
For, for somebody like us we're, we're in
this space of like figuring out for all
our publishers, what works, and what is
the best way to stream your video today.
Right now today, HS, because of its
prevalence
in old devices is, is a great standard.
However, we strong, like with HTM5
itself, we
strongly believe that MPG ash is gonna
be
a standard the standard that provides the
depth
of streaming to not only mobile devices in
HTM5.
ut also desktop devices in HTM5, and
around
your corner set tops in the HTM5 as well.
n terms of timing we are now we're
[KOW] testing and we're testing
for [KOW] with the media source
extensions that, that sound those demos.
And probably before the end of the year
we, we
will have a, we will have an
implementation of F-MJW player.
>> Great,
>> Yeah just a couple of things to add to
that.
mean, the move has really been towards
using JV
script libraries that work with MSC so doe
stuff like -JS.
So  think this kind of, there's healthy
competition in this area.
t's, it's all open source, which is
leading to, you know, really,
think you know, a high standard of code
going to that,
and we're seeing some great results if you
look at the dash
players that are out there, check out the
YouTube dash player example.
And so the move has been away from simply
setting,
a manifest file, an MP as the source of
the video.
So, to give us the flexibility to do
richer stuff with, with
JavaScript to do that with, with an open
source standard, MPG ash.
So  think the future looks bright for
ash.
efinitely.
specially on mobile.
>> This is  think a quick question for
you, Sam.
n terms of browser support for alpha
channel and transparent
backgrounds is it, is it Chrome that only
supports that?
o you have any idea when the other
browsers are planning to, etcetera?
>> You know  don't know when that's
coming to other browsers.
but, yeah, we have it in Chrome.
f people wanna have a look, there is a,
an HTM5 rocks up, update, article.
t's linked to from the, from the demo
that ,  showed there that gives some
more detail on the, on how, how, how
to produce, videos with alpha transparency
in them.
ut 'm afraid  don't have updates for,
for other browsers sadly.
ut , you know,  think a technique with
huge amount
of potential, we've noticed and incredible
amount of interest in that.
So  think that's going to push browser,
the
browser vendors into, other browser
vendors into implementing alpha
transparency.
>> ased on what you said with MSC and
M, is
it sufficient to protect video only being
streamed and not being downloaded.
>> Yes, there is work being done on that
some, the, the standard is all
around protection of the video whether it
is viewed offline, after downloading, or
its views live streamed, and
implementation of that happening now.
We'll be actually producing some more
information about that shortly.
So definitely the, the, the P, the
technology
is oriented to, to download to offline to,
you know, saving a video and watching it
on a plane whatever, as well as live
streaming.
>> Yeah, yeah and  think it's important
to add that the, with, if you're
using eme the video files that are
actually sent over the internet are
completely encrypted.
So there's nothing you can do with it if
you intercept it either
on the server side somewhere in the middle
or on the browser side.
>> You really need those like, keys that
are locked
up deep in the browser to to decrypt the
video.
VM's really like the highest level of
security that,
that you can get from from, from online
devices.
That's also why etflix is able to use M
and Hulu is
able to use M to, stream video content,
studio content with it.
[K_O]
>> Great.
Yeah.
There's a lot of questions here.
So, you guys just let me know when we need
to wrap it up.
ut 'm gonna keep moving forward.
think this is a fair question, and 'm
gonna ask, ither one of you to answer
this.
ut, given that HTM5 video is becoming
well supported, and
that there is the native video tag, what,
what is
the added value in, in somebody utilizing,
say, for example,
the JW Player instead of just the native
video tag?
[K_O].
>> So then [CROSSTK].
>>  can think of some good business
myself.
>> My  can start out then could fill in.
What do you see where to video tag, the
video player sits on top of the
video tag and then provides an entire
video
experience framework for publishers, and,
and ,and, and viewers.
So the video plays, that part is great.
ut what we're doing with JW player
is offering a unified scripting
environment around that.
You invite a skinning environment,
environment around it.
So you can very easily make sure that that
video player
looks exactly the same on all browsers and
all the devices.
And it adheres to your brand name.
Something we're also doing is analytics,
so providing your backhand via Google
analytics,
or dobe analytics or, Chartbeats or our
own JW player analytics, with the data.
So to give you insights into what's going
on
with your, with your videos, who's
watching what, where, when.
And then another big chunk is the
streaming that we've talked about.
Sam already said the streaming is really
moving especially
with HTM5 the logic port is moving into
client.
There's going to be a limited number of,
of streaming libraries that, that focus on
that.
And JW Player is, is gonna be one of them.
And then finally we're offer a lot of
tools for monetization of their video.
So, before, in the middle or after your
video playing, playing
those ads and making sure that you can
connect your ad server.
That's also something that JW Player will
provide on top of the video element.
So overall, the basic playback that's,
that's sold,
that's really working well with the HTM5
element.
ut then, providing all that business
logic, providing all
that, that added value on top of it,
that's
something that,  think would, JW Player
will be,
will continue to do that for the coming
years.
>> Yeah,  mean, [CROSSTK]  don't
really have a lot
to add, really  don't have a lot to add
to that.
mean, you know,  think that we've got a
lot, you know, different video players
kind of handling the, the
long tail of, of browsers but really video
players like
JW Player are helping developers not have
to reinvent the wheel.
There's a stack of stuff that you're going
to need to do yourself.
f you don't use the facilities that are
already available.
f you use a library java script like JW
Player.
So, you know,  think it's helping
developers not have to do the same thing
all over again to, to get a unique piece
or unified, unified user
interface and, take advantage of all the,
all the techniques that [KOW] there.
>> Thanks Sam,  know it's a bit self
serving to
ask JW to answer that question but, but
he's absolutely correct.
And, and that, you know, you can, you can
do a lot of these things with HTM5
but the JW player has done a lot of the
work, and there's a lot of value there.
We're at, 12 o'clock pacific, which is an
hour
so any of you had any other meetings that
you need to attend to just letting you
know that we are at the end of the hour.
We've agreed to stay on a few minutes
extra to answer some additional
questions, so anyone that wants to stay on
for that is welcome to.
And we'll just continue forward with a few
additional questions.
For those of you are that leaving thank
you so much for joining
us and, and thanks to J.W. and Sam for
your time in presenting.
et's go back so.
This is an interesting question and, and
'm not sure if you guys have any answers
off the top of your head but when you Oh,
'm sorry  lost the question here.
et's see here.
apologize.
n the meantime 'm going to ask you a
quick
one, Jeroen, when will JW Player support
HS and HTM5 mode?
[K_O]
>> So they'll probably be about the same
frame time as as, as MPG dash.
We have to jump through a couple of hoops
because their HS is not natively
supported in the browsers.
ut we are working at it.
We're, we can't do the same trick as we
did in Flash.
So late this year, we expect to have we
have it
working in HTM5 across Chrome and, and
hopefully also other browsers.
>> Great, okay, here's the question  was
looking for.
So, with, with HTM5 video in the future,
can we touch on any top-line effects
that might have on advertising, like,
pre-roll ads,
or more interactive formats in the video
players?
Have you, have you seen any
implementations of HTM5
video with regards to new ways of,
in-video advertising?
[K_O].
>> Yeah  can jump into the advertising
part, and  think
in the interactivity part Sam will have a
lot of feedback on.
For advertising specifically.
The HTM5 provides the same set of
functionality as flash can do.
t's all about finding common formats that
work and scale and many advertisers can
create and many video players can play
back the , the internet advertising
bureau.
Has a set of standards in, in flash and
that now have
been imported to HTM5 and they're,
they're getting picked up really swiftly.
And most of it is still the like the
general
20, 30 seconds pre roll, mid roll, post
roll though.
Just because that like, that experience of
having a very well
produced commercial played full screen,
there's,
there's nothing too bad about that.
ut there are in addition to the
additional
one of either interactive videos where you
can choose
like interactive ads where you can choose
like, do
want to play this one or this one?
You have overlays that you've seen on
YouTube that you
know, those other sites are starting to
use that a lot.
And you have you have things like tweet
out
this ad to your friends or share it on
Facebook.
So the kind of the, the social part of
it is also happening that's also an
interesting area.
>> Yeah,  mean absolutely,  think like
just
as Gerald says the work on common formats
the
standards have been taken up a lot of
thought going into that really over
several years now.
And just the ability to work with the
HTM5
video element, cuz it is an element like
any other.
You know, we, of course, have the ability
to to swap sources on an element.
We have the ability to to overlay content,
like Jeroen was saying.
so,  think, much more flexibility,
really.
Much more,  don't know.
think a brighter future for,
advertisers, on the video element.
ecause, of the fact that it's just part
of the dom.
And that makes life simpler, rather than
swapping between technologies.
So,  look forward to some innovative,
innovative
forms of advertising coming through on the
video album.
>> Thanks guys similar in terms of
the future, when you, when you look
specifically
at connective TVs, what are the most
interesting
impacts of HTM5 video do you guys see?
o you, for example, do you see HS-
etc cetera having a major impact on tv
streaming?
tcetera.
What, what thoughts do you think about
video when connected to tv's.
[K_O].
>>  think it's interesting.
,  think just, just the The way that
this is exported you know, we had years
of, a
computer being a box under a desk with, a
keyboard
and a screen, a small screen, in front of
you.
And now we're getting this huge range and
how we handle, streaming in that scenario
and so.
mean, of the streaming that distribution
of media in general.
So, thinking about say will we need to
have, really
huge screens or for video and how will we
do that?
You know, when we get beyond ultra H, how
will codex work?
mean,  think one of the things that
makes me feel
more optimistic, is the implementation in
hardware so, incoding and decoding in
hardware and so, the ability to do that in
you know,
increasingly smaller devices and you know,
right in cameras and so and so on.
So,  think a lot of.
You know, we are getting good stuff coming
through with
the software, so, you know, stuff like,
dash and all
that, but, also, very impressive work
being done with the,
with the code x, in particular
incorporating that stuff on chips.
>> Yeah, ,  totally agree.
And in addition to that, was something
like a
device like the Chromecast is really
interesting to me.
ike , like 'm really enthusiastic about
this because
it, it breaks up the TV model so much.
ike the iPhone did that for, for
smartphones.
You are able, you are able as a web
developer to build your apps toward
chromecast in HTM5 so an old tool, CSS
JavaScript that you know, and are familiar
with.
And then on top of that, that device is
not just some box sitting by itself
with a remote control you have to fiddle
with, but it actually talks to your phone
and
it talks to your tablet, and all of a
sudden, you can use a bit of JavaScript
to really help your phone and your TV
talk to each other and provide really
interactive experiences.
And an example like, what YouTube is doing
with
their [KOW] playlist on Chromecast is
just super cool.
You, boot to Chromecast on a TV.
verybody who has a phone, is on the same
network can
see the playlist on a Chromecast and start
adding stuff to it.
So you can see how the, the.
Get wild really, really swiftly, and
that's just one application.
think there are, there's got to be a lot
of those.
>> Yeah.
That's, 'm very happy to hear how you,
shout out for the chromecast there.
And , just one thing  wanted to bring up
here,
really, is the, you know, work to me is
just,  mean.
Yeah, 'm old enough to remember when
people used
to sit around the telly for hours on end.
There was nothing else.
understand people still watch a lot of
television, but, you know, what we're
seeing now is this huge shift in what
people do with their free time.
had some figures that you know, in China
in 2012, like, 30% of
households, only 30% in 2012 of households
in eijing, watch TV.
ow, that was down from, like, 70% in
2009.
That's, you know, that's people moving to
online video.
And, not just online video, but this kind
of range of new experiences.
You know.
Popular shows online, in China are getting
audiences of like,
250 million or more, and some,  think
that, you know, what
we're seeing is, yeah, this, this, this,
new, this whole new
world of, of new experiences, really,
really so much richer than.
You know, a kind of tiny black and white
screen experience that  remember
when  was a kid which was
completely, uninteractive and what we're
getting now is
the kind of stuff [KOW] talk about
with [KOW] is  feel is a much richer
richer experience with just huge potential
for even, even more types of interaction.
[K_O].
>> Great.
Thanks, we'll have a few more questions,
and then we'll
wrap it up here in about, five more
minutes here.
o either of you have, or could you refer
to any, examples of best practices
for, regarding streaming cloud hosted
video and live video in HTM 5?
>> ,  think the two links that we have
up on the screen are great starters.
So, the HTM 5 rocks website has a lot of
information.
JW Player are [KOW] port and our block
have a lot of upgrade information.
n terms of streaming  would take a look
at a tool like [KOW].
That [KOW] streaming engines.
Great tools who deal with both on
demand and live streaming processing to
multiple devices.
>> Yep.
'd, 'd like to give another shout out
actually HTM5
rocks as is a nice article by [KOW]
HTM5 video which,
has That kind of description of the video
element but
also some ideas for the kind of best
practice on there.
We're actually in the process of working
on, on just this.
kind of best practice document for
video.
'll be giving more details of that 'll
keep
you posted when we when we have that
online.
>> Right.
There is one last question that  wanna,
ask you
guys because 've seen this pop up a few
times here.
o you, do you know where we are
with support for the  element
in mobile browsers?
[K_O].
>> Yeah, we, we have support onAndroid
and iOS  believe.
Correct me if 'm wrong.
ut yeah, working working well onAndroid,
although there, there
is a kind of, there is a catch here which
is
that of course on a, on a tiny screen you
know,
there is a, a question of how you display
text now.
f you look at track running in crime on
Android you can
say it's working just as intended but text
can be quite small.
So, the way around that is to use the
events that you
can get from the track element each time a
cue changes and then implement your own.
Version of captioning so, you know, this
is something that JW
Players handled, handles and you can do
your own thing as developers.
So, to display captions in a format like
say, you know, overlaying video in
a way that suits the, suites the device
and could be adjusted by the user.
[K_O].
>> Yeah, agreed.
The both, both iOS and Chrome andAndroid
now have really good support for the track
elements.
The decks can be small if the video plays
inline but
if you jump up to, full screen mode it's
very useful, right?
haven't played around with, the latest
version of nternet xplorer on
iPhone yet, but that is, that should also
have track support right now.
So on, like, Windows phone
>> Yeah.
Sorry,  forgot to mention nternet
xplorer.
That's always had good track support.
>> Yeah.
So, just get release of [KOW] that
should also work great.
And with that .
>> and in terms of keeping up to date with
what,
where browsers are in their supportive
variational five elements for video.
Your JW Player has a great resource
at JWPlayer.com/html5 and he, he keeps
that up.
Sort of a industry to go to for, for that.
With that, we wanna thank you guys
again for your time.
Thanks to, Jeroen and thanks to Sam for,
spending their time to
educate us all on HTM5 and again, we
will, we did record this.
We will be, sending an email out and
posting this live tomorrow.
And thanks again, everybody for your time.
>> Thank you, and thanks for the great
questions.